In this video I'll demonstrate how to use the motion to migrate a virtual machine from one ESX host
to another.
So here you can see in my voice for a web client I'm in the hosts and Klosters view and I have to ESX
I host and at the moment I have not set up any of my requirements for Wii motion yet.
Right.
So let's talk about a couple of those things.
Let's look at Host 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 9 9 out 100.
And let's look at the datasource and you can see here we have one data store available on this host
is called Data Store one and it's a VMI Fast Five data store and this other host we have data store
one.
And then the number one in parentheses and it is a thirty two point five gigabyte data store.
So we've got to ESX I hosts but they don't have a data store in common.
And so that's one of the major prerequisites for Wii motion is I have to have a data store in common
between these two ESX host in order to be motion of virtual machine from one host to another.
So that's going to be step one in my process here.
I'm actually going to go ahead establish a shared data store that both of these hosts can access so
in appalls my recording for a moment while I set that prerequisite up.
OK so while my recording was paused I went ahead and set up a shared data store.
And if we go to hostes and Klosters and we look at our first host you can see I've got a new data store
here called shared.
And if I look below that a little bit I've got an additional data store called shared and they're both
the same data store.
And so now I've met one of my Wii motion prerequisites.
Now the other important Wii motion prerequisite that I have to me is I have to have a Wii motion network
and figure.
So let's go ahead and click on this first host and under this first host I'm going to look at my VM
kernel adapters and at the moment I've only got one VM kernel port created on each ESX I host a VM kernel
port specifically for management.
So if I look at both hosts they're identical.
I have a VM kernel port just for me an internet.
Now there's a couple options that I can take here.
Number one I could just simply click on the pencil icon here.
And enable the motion on this existing management VM kernel port right.
And the goal of this VM kernel port is to be able to essentially transfer all of the information that
needs to get transferred when you're moving a virtual machine from one host to another like the contents
of memory all that sort of stuff.
So we have to identify a VM kernel pore on every host that can be used for motion traffic.
And sometimes you'll see it done this way sometimes you'll see organizations that use the same VM kernel
port for Wii motion and for management it's really up to you.
It kind of depends on your own organization's scenario what your security policies are and all of that
sort of kind of external factors are really what drive your decision here.
But for my lab environment enabling these both on the same VM kernel port is perfectly suitable right.
So now I've got to VM kernel ports with the motion enabled right.
And I'm in good shape to go ahead and start to try and carry out some Wii motion operations.
So I'm going to do a little clean up here and get rid of this old VM.
I'm going to create a new virtual machine.
And this is just going to take a moment.
And when I create this new VM there's a couple of things I want to show you.
All right.
So there is also some important prerequisites for your virtual machines themselves.
So if I'm going to be Wii motioning a virtual machine from host to host it's critical that I ensure
number one that the virtual machine is located on a shared storage.
Right.
So that's the first important factor so I'm going to place this on my shared data store.
It's important that the virtual machine is compatible with the host that you plan to migrate it to.
So if I still have some ESX I six hosts in my environment I want to choose the appropriate compatibility
mode.
Now in my case all of my hosts are 6 5 so I can safely choose the latest virtual hardware version and
go ahead and select that and I'll pick my guest operating system.
And I'm just going to stick with the defaults here.
And now I can customize my hardware.
Now there's also some important things related Wii motion here as well.
So let me walk you through a couple of the key settings here.
So number one under C-p you we want to make sure that Seip scheduling affinity is not configured right.
That will break the motion right there.
So we don't want to enable that let's see we also want to make sure that our virtual machine is connected
to a network that is present on all of my ESX I host because I might be migrating this VM to another
host.
Hopefully that other host also has this network called 199 on it.
Then I also need to be able to migrate this virtual machine.
So if it's connected to an ISO image that is on my local data store that's going to be a problem.
Right.
So I want to make sure that my virtual machine is not connected to any local ISO images.
So go ahead and just leave that as client device and I'm going to go ahead and make sure that my hard
disk is thin provisioned just because I don't have a lot of space to work with here.
And I'll hit next and I'll finish since I've created a VM and that VM doesn't really have any kind of
built in problems related to Wii motion.
Right it's going to work.
So I'm going to go ahead and power this VM on and then we'll take a look at actually carrying out a
Wii motion migration.